## Importing DNA sequences into your sequence library

The first thing you'll see upon logging in to TeselaGen is the dashboard. This is a jumping-off point for anything you'd like to do within the app. At the left you will find the "Explorer" which contains your sequences, parts and projects. If you click "My sequences" you will open your sequence library to the right of the explorer. In the sequence library you can find a repository of DNA sequences that you have uploaded to the server. Sequences represent any piece of DNA, whether it's a plasmid you have in the fridge or a construct you intend to produce with an assembly.

You can import a sequence by simply dragging a genbank file into the sequence library. You can drag one or more sequences. After dragging the sequences into the sequence library, you'll notice that a progress bar will appear in the top of the screen, and that the sequence(s) will appear in the library. A sequence within the sequence library will contain the GenBank locus name of each sequence, the sequence length, the names of any annotations that may be present in the file, as well as the date the sequence was created and last modified.

Alternatively, you can import a genbank file by creating a new sequence and then, under the File top-menu, clicking on 'open sequence file'. By doing this, you can overwrite the current sequence or make a new one. 

If we mouse a sequence within the sequence library, a preview window will pop up showing the sequence along with its annotations, if any are present. The preview will also indicate whether a sequence is linear or circular. We can also search through our sequence library and sort based on their names, length, and dates created and last modified.

Note that when importing a genbank file, you might see a warning in case the file contains annotations that did not have a 'label' attribute. If this is the case, when the sequence is rendered, there will be some features that will not have a name. Also, we don't allow two sequences to be present with the same GenBank LOCUS name and sequence content. If we really wanted two identical sequences to be in the database, we would have to open up a text editor and edit the GenBank locus name of one of them so that they are not identical.
